# play-rust
## Docs
- [Rust examples](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/mod.html)

## How to compile
Assuming you have a file called 
```bash
rustc main.rs
```
Running the command `rustc` creates a `crate`.  
A crate is a compilation unit in Rust. Whenever `rustc` some_file.rs is called, `some_file.rs` is treated as the crate file. If some_file.rs has mod declarations in it, then the contents of the module files would be inserted in places where mod declarations in the crate file are found, before running the compiler over it.  
Read more on `crates` [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/crates.html)


## Run the program
```
./main
```

## Cargo
cargo is the official Rust package management tool.

### Cargo.toml file
The Cargo.toml file is a configuration file that specifies various details about your Rust project. It includes information such as the project name, version, dependencies, build configuration, and more. Here are some key aspects of the Cargo.toml file:
- Project Metadata: Includes the project's name, version, authors, and other metadata.  
- Dependencies: Lists the external crates (libraries) that your project depends on.  
- Build Configuration: Specifies build-related settings and features.  
Example:
```toml
[package]
name = "my_rust_project"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["Your Name <your.email@example.com>"]

[dependencies]
serde = "1.0"
```
The name field under [package] determines the name of the project. This is used by crates.io if you publish the crate (more later). It is also the name of the output binary when you compile.  
The version field is a crate version number using Semantic Versioning.  
The authors field is a list of authors used when publishing the crate.  
The [dependencies] section lets you add dependencies for your project.  
[Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/cargo/deps.html) 

### Dependencies
To add a dependency to our program, we can simply add the following to our Cargo.toml under [dependencies]: clap = "2.27.1". And that's it! You can start using clap in your program.  
For example:
```toml
[package]
name = "foo"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["mark"]

[dependencies]
clap = "2.27.1" # from crates.io
```

### Cargo.lock file
The Cargo.lock file is automatically generated by Cargo based on the dependencies specified in the Cargo.toml file. It records the exact versions of the dependencies (and their transitive dependencies) that were used when the project was last built.

## Docker
- build the container
```
docker build -t play-rust .
```
- run the container
```
docker run -it play-rust
```

## Lint
To lint rust we will use `clippy`.

### Installation
Run the command.
```bash
rustup component add clippy
```

### Lint configuration
Add a file called `clippy.toml` in the root directory of the project.  

[Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/clippy/lint_configuration.html)


### Turn on/off lint warnings
Given a code snippet like this one:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 6;
    println!("Hello, Rust!");
}
```
This will raise a warning for the unused variable x. Turn off warnings for `unused variables` we can add `#![allow(unused_variables)]` at the top of the file.
```rust
#![allow(unused_variables)]

fn main() {
    let x = 6;
    println!("Hello, Rust!");
}
```
Alternative we can change the `warning` to a complete denial like this.
```rust
#![deny(unused_variables)]

fn main() {
    let x = 6;
    println!("Hello, Rust!");
}
```
[Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/lints/levels.html) on lint levels.
